I would like to give a very important notice here (which I will also write about in the notes). There is not verb "to be" in Turkish. You can form 
sentences in Turkish without the verb to be by adding suffixes that "verbify" nouns. For example: in the English sentence "I am a doctor," the verb "to be"
is conjugated as "am." In Turkish, this sentence would be "Ben doktorum," where "doktor" is "doctor" and "Ben" is "I." Notice how there isn't an explicit
"to be." As I will describe in the notes, the verb "to be" will be implicit in the form of the "-um" or "-üm" suffixes at the end of nouns.

An additional note is that, you will see that Turkish verbs, in their infinitive forms, are written as "...-mek" or "...-mak." Think of "-mek" and "-mak" 
as the "to" in front of the verbs in the English infinitive forms.

Without further ado, here's the list (Ongoing process):

Gitmek (to go): [In order: First person singular, second person singular, third person singular, first person plural, second person plural, third person plural]
Present continous tense: gidiyorum, gidiyorsun, gidiyor, gidiyoruz, gidiyorsunuz, gidiyorlar
Present (Simple) tense: giderim, gidersin, gider, gideriz, gidersiniz, giderlert
Past continous tense: gidiyordum, gidiyordun, gidiyordu, gidiyorduk, gidiyordunuz, gidiyorlardı
Past tense: Gittim, gittin, gitti, gittik, gittiniz, gittiler
Past conditional: giderdim, giderdin, giderdi, giderdik, giderdiniz, giderlerdi
Past (general) tense: giderdim, giderdin, giderdi, giderdik, giderdiniz, giderlerdi
Indefinite Past tense [This will be elaborated upon later]: gitmiştim, gitmiştin, gitmiş, gitmiştik, gitmiştiniz, gitmişlerdi
Future tense: gideceğim, gideceksin, gidecek, gideceğiz, gideceksiniz, gidecekler.

Example: I am going to Spain.
In Turkish: İspanya'ya gidiyorum.

yapmak (to do): [In order: First person singular, second person singular, third person singular, first person plural, second person plural, third person plural]
Present continous tense: yapıyorum, yapıyorsun, yapıyor, yapıyoruz, yapıyorsunuz, yapıyorlar
Present (Simple) tense: yaparım, yaparsın, yapar, yaparız, yaparsınız, yaparlar
Past continous tense: yapıyordum, yapıyordun, yapıyordu, yapıyorduk, yapıyordunuz, yapıyorlardı
Past tense: yaptım, yaptın, yaptı, yaptık, yaptınız, yaptılar
Past conditional: yapardım, yapardın, yapardı, yapardık, yapardınız, yaparlardı
Past (general) tense: yapardım, yapardın, yapardı, yapardık, yapardınız, yaparlardı
Indefinite Past tense [This will be elaborated upon later]: yapmıştım, yapmıştın, yapmıştı, yapmıştık, yapmıştınız, yapmışlar
Future tense: yapacağım, yapacaksın, yapacak, yapacağız, yapacaksınız, yapacaklar
