Hey everyone, welcome to Learn Turkish Notes #1
The Turkish Alphabet and the Pronounciations of Letters
Below are the letters in alphabetical order, with their lowercase versions and pronounciations.
A, a: Pronounce it like the "A" in "Amazing" 
B, b: Pronounce it like the "B" in "Bravo."
C, c: Pronounce it like the "J" in "Jingle." 
Ç, ç: Pronoucne it like the "Ch" sound in "Chimp."
D, d: Pronounce it like the "D" sound in "Dumbell."
E, e: Pronounce it like the "Ai" sound in "Air," "Ea" sound in "Bread," or imagine a Canadian saying "Eh."
F, f: Pronounce it like the "F" sound in "Fat."
G, g: Pronoucne it like the "G" sound in "Ghana."
Ğ, ğ: This one doesn't have a pronounciation! It's kind of an elongation, and exists to prevent double-vowels from happening (See Turkish Notes #3 to 
to understand what this is). We call this letter "yumuşak g," which can be directly translated as "soft g." It is used in varous words, but can never 
be placed at the beginning of a word! No word starts with "ğ," hence, although it has a capital form "Ğ," the capital form is NEVER used. An example in a 
word would be "uğur," which means "luck." You would pronounce this word as "uur."
H, h: Pronounce it like the "H" in "Heart."
I, ı: This is an interesting one that bamboozles people. It is the DOTLESS "i" or "ı." The capital version of it is "I," not to be confused with the 
capital of "i," which is "İ." "ı" can be pronounced in the following way: The "i" sound in "Cousin" or "E" sound in "Legend" is as close as you can
get to pronouncing "ı." 
İ, i: Pronounce it as the "i" sound in "Emily" or "Ee" sound in "Eerie."
J, j: Pronounce it as the "s" in "Pleasure" or listen to how the French pronounce the name "Jean," and replicate the "J."
K, k: Pronounce it as the "C" in "Cat."
L, l: Pronounce it as the "L" in "Lake."
M, m: Prnounce it as the "M" in "Mother."
N, n: Pronounce it as the "N" in "Nile."
O, o: Pronounce it like the "O" sound in "Open."
Ö, ö: Prounounce it like the "Ea" sound in "Earth."
P, p: Pronounce it like the "P" sound in "Peanut."
R, r: Pronounce it like the "R" sound in "Rock."
S, s: Pronounce it as the "S" in "Safe."
Ş, ş: Pronounce it like the "Sh" sound in "Shut."
T, t: Pronounce it as the "T" in "Take."
U, u: Prnounce it as the "U" in "Tune" or the "u" in "Fluke." This isn't the best description, however. You might want to listen how Turkish people
pronounce this letter online.
Ü, ü: This is a bit difficult. Imagine pronouncing the "Ew" in "Grew" with a heavy Scottish accent. Or, say "Eeeee" like a mouse but then round your lips.
V, v: Pronounce it as "V" in "Vendetta."
Y, y: Pronounce it as "Y" in "Yell."
Z, z: Pronounce it as "Z" in "Zebra."
Notice something? Yeah! First of all, some letters common to Western languages like "Q," "W," and "X" don't exist! Also, what the hell are these "Ç," "Ğ,"
"Ö," "Ş," "Ü." Now you might be thinking "Well those are so many new letters I have to remember how to pronounce, this will be very difficult!"
Well yes but actually no. Turkish is a highly phonetic language. You speak it as you write it, and you write it as you speak it. For example, in English,
when we say "Shuttle" in English, we pronounce the "Sh" differently compared to pronouncing "S" and "h" one-by-one. Well in Turkish, you pronounce all 
letters one-by-one with no exceptions. All letters are pronounced in the same way in every sentence with no exceptions, which makes it much easier for 
learners. 
Oh and one more thing: Turkish words are pronounced without accents. Each syllable in a word has the same length in pronounciate it. If you want to 
accentuate a part of a word, you would raise your voice on that syllable, but wouldn't change the duration you pronounce the other syllables.
I hope this crash course on the alphabet was helpful, and I hope you like my notes!

Learn Turkish Notes #2
Here, you will learn how basic Turkish sentences are constructed. I will first introduce the concept of sentence order, so that you -an English speaker-
have an idea of how Turkish sentences work.
Let's start by writing a basic English sentence: "Aaron wants to go to the movies."
As you can see here, we have a Subject-Verb-Object order in English.
In Turkish, this sentence would be "Arda sinemaya gidiyor."
Here, one can easily realize that "sinema" in Turkish means "cinema" in English, and infer that this sentence is a Subject-Object-Verb sentence.  
Another important thing to note is the number of words. In the Turkish equivalent of the sentence, there appears to be less words compared to the English 
version of the sentence.
The reason for that is the suffix-based writing system of Turkish, which we will get to in future notes. 
For now, just know that Turkish is a Subject-Object-Verb language, and prepositions are added as suffixes.
One tip to make thinking in Turkish for English speakers would be to translate Yoda's English to Turkish as you begin learning it.
For example, instead of saying "I am taking my basketball to the court." Say "I my basketball to the court am taking."
The sentence "I am taking my basketball to the court." would be translated as "Ben basketbol topumu basketbol sahasına götürüyorum." in Turkish,
with "götürüyorum" being the verb. 

Words to learn from the notes above
Turkish = English
sinema  = cinema
gitmek  = to go 
Ben     = I
götürmek = to take
basketbol topu = basketball (ball)
basketbol = basketball (sport)
basketbol sahası = basketball court
saha 

Learn Turkish Notes #3
Letter Rules
One of the most important components of Turkish that needs to be introduced early on are rules that dictate the placement of letters in Turkish words. 
Unless a word is borrowed from another language, all Turkish words obey the following rules: vowel harmony and rules against double consonants and double
vowels.
What do these mean?
  Vowel Harmony: There are two types of vowels in Turkish: The "low-pitched" vowels, which are "a," "ı," "o," "u." Or, as I like to call them, "the dotless 
  vowels." There are also the "high-pitched" vowels, which are "e," "i," "ö," "ü." All Turkish words that have their roots in old Turkish 
  have ONLY "a,"  "ı," "o," "u," or "e," "i," "ö," "ü" in them. This makes it easier to distinguished loan words from Turkic words as well. For example, 
  "cüzdan" means "wallet." Notice, how it mixes a "high-pitched" ("ü") vowel with a "low-pitched" ("a") vowel. 99% of the time, this implies that it is a 
  borrowed word from a language. Similarly the French loan "asansör" (elevator) is also clearly borrowed, as "a" and "o," which are two "low-pitched" 
  sounds are mixed with a "high-pitched" sound. Contrary to the borrowed words, take the word "oğlak" for example. "Oğlak" means "goat" in Turkish.
  Notice how it only contains two "low-pitched" vowels? That's because it comes from Old Turkish. Now wait a second, does the implication work the other 
  way around? As in, if a word has vowel harmony, does it mean its definitely Turkish? 
  Well, not really. Although not exhibiting vowel harmony is almost (again, 99% chance) guarantees that the word is borrowed (we will look at exceptions 
  later), exhibiting vowel harmony doesn't necessarily mean the word comes from Old Turkish. Take the word "masa" which means "table" for example. This
  word was borrowed from Italian. Yet despite being borrowed, it still exhibits vowel harmony, so the converse isn't true.
  Rules against double consonants and double vowels: No Turkish word that has its roots in Old Turkish can have two vowels (i.e. "aı," or "eö," or 
  "aa") next to each other. Similarly, no nouns can have two consonants next to each other as well (i.e. "ts," "ph," "sh," etc.). This is a good way
  to differentiate what is Turkish and what isn't either! Consider the word "saat" which means "watch" in Turkish. "Saat" exhibits vowel harmony, as 
  both letters are "low-pitched"; however, it also has a double vowel construction, where the second "a" directly follows the first "a." 
  This definitively means that it is not from Old Turkish and is borrowed. Similarly, take "tombala" which is a game similar to bingo. Even though it
  exhibits vowel harmony, notice it has "m" and "b" back-to-back which implies it is a borrowed word. In this particular case, it was borrowed from Italian.
  Exceptions: Combined words or utility suffixes.
    Combined words: Sometimes in Turkish, we combine two words to make a larger word that means something else. Take two words "veri" and "taban," which
    mean "data" and "base" respectively. Can you guess what word they will make together? As you might have guessed, they combine to make "Veritabanı" which
    unsurprisingly means "Database." Notice how two individual words derived from Old Turkish, "veri" and "taban," both obeying the vowel harmony rule 
    and the double consonant/vowel constraints joined to make a word that doesn't follow one of the following rules. That doesn't necessarily mean
    this word isn't Turkish and is borrwed, it just means that the word is an exception. Note that these exceptions are quite rare.
    Utility suffixes: Wait a minute, you've done some Turkish learning here and there, and you can swear on your life you've seen the noun "yaz" which 
    means "summer" the suffix "-lık" combine to make "yazlık," or "summer home." Here "z" and "l" are next to each other, so does this mean "yaz" is 
    a loanword? No, it just means that us Turks LOVE being lazy and adding suffixes to words to derive utility out of them. Some notable suffixes are 
    "-lık/-lik/-luk/-lük" or "-ci/-çi/-cı/-çı." We will dive deep into the world of utility suffixes later on.
    
So wait a second, why on earth did you read this much on the underlying logic of Turkish? 
Well, it turns out that vowel harmony is *ESSENTIAL* in adding suffixes. In the next few parts, we will dive deep into the world of suffixes. The next part
involves plurals.
    
*Plural Endings*
Welcome to the world of plurals. Constructing plurals in Turkish is very easy, unlike some other languages (yes, German, I'm looking at you). All you need
to do is to add the following suffixes
"-lar" OR "-ler", depending on VOWEL HARMONY. 
See, that's why you learnt it. The basic rule is the following: Depending on the nature of the last vowel ("high-pitched" or "low-pitched"), you will
place an appropriate pluralization suffix at the end of the word. Can you guess which "pitch" of the last vowel correspond to which pluralization suffix?
If you guessed "low-pitched" "a," "ı," "o," "u" with "-lar" and "e," "i," "ö," "ü" with "-ler."
Here are some examples:
ekmek = bread => ekmeler = breads
araba = car => arabalar = cars
check this out:
as mentioned above, "asansör" means "elevator." Notice how the first two vowels of "asansör" are "low-pitched," yet the last one, "ö", is "high-pithed."
As you might have guessed, to construct "elevators" we say "asansörler," as the pluralization suffix depends on the pitch of the LAST vowel, as mentioned
above.
Practice questions:
Can you pluralize the following words? [Don't scroll to the solutions immediately!]
Masa (Table)
Sandalye (Chair)
Tren (Train)
Bisiklet (Bicycle)
Kalem (Kalem)
Kitap (Kitap)
Defter (Defter)
Telefon (Telefon)

Solutions
Masalar
Sandalyeler
Trenler
Bisikletler
Kalemler
Kitaplar
Defterler
Telefonlar

Turkish Lesson #4
Personal Pronouns
I = Ben
You (singular) = Sen
He/She =  O (There is no gender in Turkish, not even in terms of personal pronouns)
We = Biz 
You (plural) = Siz
They = Onlar

Personalizing objects/nouns
You can “personalize” objects in Turkish by adding suffixes
For example:
computer = bilgisayar
My computer = (Benim) bilgisayarım
Suffix:	-ım
Your computer = (Senin) bilgisayarın
Suffix:	-ın
His/her computer = (Onun) bilgisayarı
Suffix:	-ı
Our computer = (Bizim) bilgisayarımız
Suffix:	-ımız
Your (plural) computer = (Sizin) bilgisayarınız
Suffix:	-ınız
Their computer = (Onların) bilgisayarları
Suffix:	-ları
Similarly, this needs to be adapted to AIOU vs EİÖÜ as well
Cat = kedi
My cat = (Benim) kedim
Suffix:	-im
Your cat = (Senin) kedin
Suffix:	-in
His/her cat = (Onun) kedisi
Suffix:	-isi
	We must put an “s” also known as a “bonding” letter, since we can’t put 	two vowels together in Turkish. Without the bonding letter “s”, it would 	be kedii, which is not a word in Turkish
Our cat = (Bizim) kedimiz
Suffix:	-imiz
Your (plural) cat = (Sizin) kediniz
Suffix:	-iniz
Their computer = (Onların) kedileri
Suffix:	-leri

For words that end with a vowel, just take out the "i" at the beginning of the suffix. For example, "Masa" (which means "table") becomes "Masam" for  "My
table," "Masan" for "Your table," or "Masamız," for "Our table."
The words in parentheses are the personal pronouns. They can be used, but its not necessary, as the suffixes of words already tells you who it belongs to. 
Hence, saying "Onların kedileri" and "kedileri" mean the same thing.

Here are some practice words for you to "personalize"
On the left side of the colon, there is the English personal pronoun and the object; on the right side of the colon, there is the Turkish word for 
the object.

My eraser : Silgi
Your (singular) shoe: Ayakkabı
Their chocolate = Çikolata
Our pants = Pantalon
Your (plural) video game = Video oyunu
His/her dog = Köpek

Answers:
(Benim) silgim
(Senin) ayakkabın
(Onların) çikolataları
(Bizim) pantalonumuz
(Sizin) video oyununuz
(Onun) köpeği [It is reasonable if you wrote "köpeki" as an answer to this. This one is intentionally tricky and we will cover why the "k" transforms into 
a "ğ" a couple of notes later

